[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: How many of
you have ever opened up and
read any part of the JavaScript spec?
>> Kyle Simpson: Maybe we'll get a couple
of people from the chat room saying
that they have, but
my guess is I didn't see any hands go up.
I read it every night before bed.
It's great nighttime reading
right before I go to sleep.
I'm kidding.
But actually becoming a lot more familiar
with the spec lately from writing these
books because when I say something about
JavaScript I gotta make sure that I'm
actually saying it accurately.
So just real quickly what I'm gonna
do if this link will work for
me, [COUGH]
I just want to take you real
briefly through an experience that
I just did a couple of days ago.
I had a comment thread that I started, I'd
read an article that somebody had written.
Great article, fantastic smart
guy from a company called Teller.
But I was reading this article and
he made a statement something about
the way that the this keyword gets bound.
And stuck out at me as
feeling a bit inaccurate or
at least it's possible that
I was misunderstanding.
But it felt a bit inaccurate, so
I kind of started a comment thread and
said you know I'm not really
sure that's how it works,
seems like a misconception and
let's discuss it.
And we kind of went back and forth a
couple of times to clarify that he really
felt this one way, and primarily he felt
this one way because of a quote that he
got from John Rezig's great book,
Secrets of the Java Script Ninja,
which stated something about the way
that this keyword was bound.
And it should come as no surprise for
any of you that know that I'm sort of a
controversial person I happen to disagree
with John on that particular topic.
I think the way that's being stated is not
quite correct, and so I have in my book,
the second title of this series, explained
my explanation for how this keyword
gets bound and it kind of, in one point
at least, kind of contradicted that.
And the question was sort of put to me,
well the spec says this,
are you really sure that what
you're saying is correct?
So as an exercise,
I said let me go through and
create from the spec an argument
that supports my position for
out of this cube and
I won't go through all the details.
I just wanna give you a sample of this.
Now the spec is difficult to read,
there's no question about it.
It's difficult unless you're
really somebody that sort of,
you know like a wongth that really
likes to think about this details.
It's hard, I'm not saying that is easy,
but I do think that we
should pay a lot more attention
to what we're doing in the specs.
I mean what were doing with JavaScript
according to what the specs is, so
let me make sure I'm on the right link,
I think I am, yeah.
All right, so
why is my command F find not working?
Of course, live I can't do.
There it is, that's weird.
My browser's off the screen, there we go.
Okay.
So where would we start if we were asking.
[COUGH] Because if you searched for
the word this in the spec, you're
obviously going to get several thousand
examples of that grammatically speaking.
So where would we start in terms of
how to find something in the spec.
As a sort of an exercise for what to do.
So as you start to get a little
bit familiar with the spec and
you understand how these
things are laid out.
You can start to get
a little bit of experience.
The best place to start is with
this table of contents and
briefly scan through
the table of contents and
see if you can find anything
that mentions the this keyword.
And as we begin to scroll down.
As we get a little bit closer,
we're gonna find I'm not seeing it here,
but we'll find here in just a moment
that there's a place to start about.
Let me just cheat real quick and
skip to the, there we go.
So I was gonna search for
this keyword, cuz that's what it says.
So it's in Section 11.1.
Now, okay,
it evaluates to the this binding, okay, so
now we're gonna have to,
this is follow the rabbit trail.
We're gonna have to go and
check out what the this binding is.
So this starts to talk
about execution context.
And we see that this binding here,
the value associated with it,
well that's not terrible helpful.
Let's see if we can keep going and
find another example of the [COUGH]
discussion about the this binding.
And we're eventually gonna get to
>> Kyle Simpson: This
particular section of code.
Now this says when you're entering
function code, what do you do?
It says if the function code is in strict,
then set the ThisBinding to thisArg.
So if you see right there
where it says thisArg.
thisArg means that there was an argument
passed to that function execution
that says what this should be.
So right here, what we know is we're
already at a layer of abstraction where
when the function starts to execute,
the decision for
what this keyword has already been
made and it's been passed in.
And that's something that we can
gather just from understanding that.
That there's a thisArg that was passed in,
but we know many of the times,
when we write our function calls,
we don't pass that in, so there must
be some mechanism that's doing that.
So my next step would be then to say,
where does it talk about
the thisArg in the spec?
This is literally the process that I went
through to try to come up with this.
We can read here,
by the way in steps one and
two, you can say that
if it's in strict mode,
it strictly uses whatever was passed in,
but if it's not in strict mode that's .2.
And you pass in a null or undefined, then
it instead defaults to the global object.
So that's an interesting key, because
we'll talk about this later, but there's
an interesting key that the default
binding rule that we'll talk about,
it's the fourth of four rules that
we'll talk about later today.
The default binding rule says that
if [COUGH] you're in strict mode
then the this keyword
ends up as undefined.
But if you're in non strict mode
it ends up as the global object.
And right there bam, in lines one and
two, we see the evidence for
that exposition of that particular rule.
So this is something where
it doesn't actually,
the way I wrote it out in the book, you're
not gonna find that sort of thing word for
word in the same terminology.
But you can still understand something
about the way our language works.
This is the official you know,
sort of place that comes.
So how would we if we wanted to keep
going down the rabbit trail how
could we look at.
Well we know that when we are dealing
with you know function apply and
function call we know there's always going
to be a thisArg that's being passed in.
So we can see those sections
being referenced there.
But there's one other place that I want to
call your attention to about the thisArg.
Actually, let me scroll up [COUGH] to
the top and start my search from the top.
>> Kyle Simpson: You see all these
other places where there's things in
the code that you can
supply to thisArg manually.
Now
>> Kyle Simpson: It
wasn't the thisArg, sorry.
What we want to do then is look for
that this binding.
>> Kyle Simpson: Sorry, I'm,
my searching skills are seeming to fail.
I won't belabor this but you can
continue to look through this spec and
you can find out that there are other
places in the spec where it will list
these sort of bits and
pieces of the rules.
And you do have to kind of put five or six
different sentences together to kind of
come up with a coherent understanding
of how this key word gets bound.
That can be frustrating, but
it also can be empowering.
The fact that there isn't anything
magical happening in the language
that isn't spelled out here in the spec.
That should be a confidence
builder to you.
That if there's ever something that's
confusing in addition to all of
the places where you can try to read blog
posts and you can try to read books and
you can try to understand what other
people have to say, in addition to all of
that stuff you can also go directly to
the spec and see what the spec has to say.
It takes some practice, I've been working
at this a while and I'm still like just
barely starting to understand some of the
conventions and the words that they use.
Takes a little bit,
but I think that's part of being having
ownership over the web platform.
So that's just a little kind of advocacy
point to say I recommend as another
piece of homework that at some point
I'm going to teach you something today.
Like the disc bindings for instance.
Or the way Lexical Scope works.
I'm going to teach you something today.
I recommend as a piece of homework that
you don't just take my word for it.
Go back and look at the spec and
see what the spec has to say.
Just try your hand at searching through
the spec and see if you can figure it out.
So, that's my advocacy
about the Equi Script spec.
I think we should pay more
attention to it as developers.
Finally, it's important not only
to know where the language is, but
where the language is headed.
This is one of several different
links that are out there,
we could probably [COUGH]
come up with others.
But there's a whole bunch of proposals for
the future of the language and
that is ES6 which is impending upon us.
It's coming very quickly.
We'll talk a number of
times about ES6 today, but
there's also even ES7 and
beyond stuff that's being discussed.
Things like macros which are likely
going to come in the ES7-ish time range.
Things like that.
So there's a whole bunch of stuff that's
being discussed about the the future
of the language.
Some of it sounds really cool,
like macros, and
some of it sounds really terrible
like operator overloading, but
they're being discussed,
as futures of the language.
So, I don't think it's a good for us as
a development community to turn a blind
eye to that, and wait, you know, five
years until it's already been decided.
I think we need to take
participate in that process now.
The TC39 community is being incredibly
open about keeping all that stuff out.
They publish notes from
their bimonthly meetings.
So I recommend you kind of take
a look at what the spec is doing.